>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's
start creating a PWA.
Let's first talk about
the components of a PWA.
So what's a PWA?
What do we need to create a PWA?
We need a web app,
any web app, any website.
Actually, it can be a website,
not really a web app, okay?
A web app manifest, that's something new.
So we will start talking about that.
We need a web app manifest, and
sometimes we need a service worker.
Why I'm saying sometimes, because I
mentioned that this service worker is
the one that will make
our app offline capable.
And now it's kind of optional.
So it's becoming optional, okay?
So the concept is changing with time,
and it's becoming more flexible.
As I mentioned before,
initially, eight years ago,
it was heartbreaking that you
have to have a service worker.
Now, if you don't have it,
it will work anyway, okay?
So that means that we
have some kind of levels.
We have a full level.
That means you're doing nothing.
Actually, I'm not sure if you know this,
but if you have done nothing for
your website,
something that is also underused,
on desktop,
you can install it as an app as well.
I'm not sure if you know that.
So let me get out of here for a second.
So If I go to Wikipedia,
that is not a PWA,
I can take any article.
No let's take anyone that is not
political, Paramount Pictures.
And I can go here, Save and Share.
I don't have the normally installed.
I have a new one, this is new,
Install Page as App, on any html.
When you do that, it kind of creates
a PWA, even if it's not a PWA.
That's why I can't change
the title because, okay,
how do you wanna call the app, okay?
Okay, Paramount wherever, paramount PWA.
Okay, Install.
So is it a PWA?
Well, not really, but now we have
some basic support on desktop only.
On Android, you can add to
the home screen and it's bookmark,
and it's not open as an app, okay?
It's a link, a bookmark to the browser.
So if I install this, now, I have a PWA
for Paramount PWA, pointing to that URL.
You can see there are some differences.
For example, we have the back button and
the reload that wasn't there before, why?
Because they know that this is not a PWA.
So they wanna offer us
a minimal user interface, so
we can navigate here, because if not.
And when we are getting
out of the initial HTML,
we are seeing this bar here saying okay,
now,
we are not in the initial HTML you added
as an app, it's a different one, okay?
But you can continue navigate and go back.
And it took the favicon,
okay, as of the app icon.
So that's kind of a basic
level that you already have.
But yeah, if that's the case,
we can end the workshop here, right?
But there are more that we can do for.
For example, we can provide some
basic metadata, change the icon,
define the title for
when you install this.
So we can provide something else.
We can also pass something
known as a PWA criteria.
So passing the PWA criteria is kind of
saying, okay, I'm a PWA, I have the badge.
I'm a PWA, okay?
And then you can go into
a full offline experience that
now is not mandatory, but
it's the one level, okay?
So the criteria is defined by the browser.
If passed, there are hints, banners,
dialogs, or bars explaining to the user
that the current web app is installable,
and it will invite them to install it.
It depends on the browser, but, for
example, on Firefox on Android or
other browsers will actually,
when you pass the criteria,
they will render this banner at
the bottom, add this to the home screen.
Or they would add a bar as the one
that we saw on desktop in the URL bar.
They add a menu item that
says install these apps.
Or it will let you add your own button.
But for that,
you need to pass the criteria.
If you don't pass the criteria,
maybe the user will be able to
install your app anyway, but
the user will receive no hints that
the app decides it's installable, okay?
Make sense?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: For example, on
Safari on iOS, the installability criteria
means that you need to include metadata
with the app's name, icons, and
we will see how to do that,
and the start URL.
What's the start URL?
We will get there, but
it's a property that we can define.
And display mode,
we'll get into that later.
On Safari on the Mac, actually, that's
the requirement, installability criteria.
So nothing, there are no requirements.
On Safari on iOS,
you can install any website as a web app.
Add to log, it will just work.
For Chromium, that's Chrome,
Edge on Android and
also desktop, the web app
shouldn't be already installed.
This is interesting.
Remember on iOS that we saw two icons for
Squoosh.
On IOS,
Apple can let you have more than one.
And each icon,
let me show you that back again.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I
have two Squoosh here.
I can add as many as I want.
And something interesting happens,
not with Squoosh,
but with this other PWA
that someone told me, okay?
So you can add to the home
screen two Tinders.
And if you remember Steve Jobs,
every app is a sandbox.
So you can have two Tinder accounts,
one for work,
because I think it has to do with work,
and one for person.
So on iOS, but that's iOS only,
on iOS, each PWA that you install,
each PWA that you install, it's a sandbox.
It's isolated from Safari.
It's isolated from other PWAs,
even if it's the same PWA.
That's kind of an iOS unique thing.
And Apple is actually saying that
this is a feature, not a bug, okay?
They say that for
that, you can separate your personal
life with your corporate life.
It's interesting because they
don't have that on native.
They have that on web apps.
On Chrome, on the other hand, if it's
already installed, it's not going to be
installed again, so you won't be
offered the installation, okay?
So only one, and also the storage
is share between the browser and
the singleton install app, the only
install app that you have is shared.
So you cannot have two users, okay?
It should be on HTTPS.
That's kind of default now these days.
You should meet some basic
engagement heuristic.
So what is this?
The idea is that if you're
opening a URL in the background,
you're not actually seeing the PWA,
you're not touching or scrolling or
doing nothing, you won't see any message.
So it takes some seconds to
see if you're actually really
interacting with the website, okay?
And you should include also the metadata
with the name, icons, the start URL and
the display mode.
That is kind of the same as in Safari,
okay?
So that's the installability criteria.
For Firefox, Android only,
the web app shouldn't be already
installed on HTTPS and the metadata.
So it's actually pretty similar
to Chrome on Android only.
Remember, Firefox only supports
PWAs on Android, okay, cool?
On mobile,
if you don't meet the basic criteria,
standalone installation won't happen.
So if you try to install,
the maximum you can get is an icon,
but pointing to the browser,
so a bookmark.
On desktop, there are ways to install
them as web app, as we saw before,
that I can install any website
these days as web apps.